In late 2019, the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) emerged from Wuhan, China, and it quickly became a global pandemic that affected more than 130 countries and territories. It infects and kills people of all ages and races, but it does not appear to attack folks in a similar fashion. Thus, its mode of transmission is not very well understood. Some speculate that COVID-19 is transmitted from person to person when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or talks, droplets or tiny particles called aerosols carry the virus into the air from their nose or mouth or surfaces that contain the virus. Anyone who is within 6 feet of that person can breathe it into their lungs and becomes infected if the person ingests a great deal of virus. On surfaces where it is present, the virus can remain infectious from 2 hours and up to 9 days depending on the surface materials. Also, it can remain airborne for up to 3 hours post aerosolization. Furthermore, a small majority of carriers develop mild to no symptoms. Therefore, transmission occurs rapidly and inconspicuously with both symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals unknowingly transmitting the virus, resulting in more people being infected. However, the real method of transmission is not very well studied since the disease is new. Some folks asymptomatically carry the virus and carry their life burdens while other are very symptomatic. In patients that display symptoms of COVID-19, this highly contagious disease causes severe acute respiratory syndrome, which infects lower respiratory airways and results in fatal pneumonia. The COVID-19 pandemic is a major challenge for health officials around the globe. Its effect is widely visible, resulting in about a 5.6% mortality rate and causing major economic and social devastations. Research data continues to prove that COVID-19 affects all race and ethnicity with older individuals as well as those with underlying health conditions are more vulnerable to experiencing severe illnesses and death. Data analysis of COVID-19 from the USA highlights pre-existing health disparities among African Americans and Hispanic as the potential cause of poor prognosis. For instance, African Americans have a 44% greater chance of dying from stroke, 20% more likely to have asthma, 25% more likely to have heart disease, 72% more likely to have diabetes, and 23% more likely to be obese as opposed to non-Hispanic Whites according to the National Health Care disparities. This is very alarming, so government and public health officials should address this major concern because data has revealed that black people accounted for a higher share of COVID-19 cases than their share in the population in 21 out of 30 states reporting data. Also, black folks accounted for a higher share of deaths than their share of the total population in 19 out of 24 states. Therefore, it is imperative to urgently take necessary measures to address and mitigate the effects of health disparities. This project shows the trends in deaths in connection with the Coronavirus for different race ethnicity groups and displays the proportion of deaths for each race and ethnicity.
